---
layout: post
title: Judging the SUTD 30.007 Engineering Design Innovation Showcase 🚀
date: 2025-08-15 21:00:00+0800
inline: false
related_posts: true
---

🌟 **Fifteen passionate student teams, one vision: Reimagine civic innovation
with design, hardware, and AI!**

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-6">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/civic_intelligence.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

On August 15th, I had the honor of serving as a judge at the SUTD 30.007
Engineering Design Innovation showcase, powered by the creative spirit of the
[James Dyson Foundation](https://www.jamesdysonfoundation.com/). The challenge?
To bring together embodied AI and ingenious hardware for public good—making our
cities safer, healthier, and more inclusive!

## 🎬 Arrival at SUTD: A Stage for the Imaginative

As the showcase began, the energy was electric. Teams lined up with prototypes
in hand, ready to tackle everything from healthcare and accessibility to
sustainability and conservation. The atmosphere buzzed with hopeful
anticipation—each team eager to inspire with their solutions.

## 🔎 Innovation Highlights: The Full Spectrum of Civic Ingenuity

Here’s a whirlwind tour of the standout projects on display:

**Team 1: TRONE—Versatile Surveying Drone for Emergency Operations**

TRONE is a rugged drone that switches between flight and ground modes for rapid
surveying in mines and caves. Adaptable and durable, it excels where
conventional drones can't.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/drone_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/drone_prototype_demo_comp.gif" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 2: Augmented Display and Mapping & Enhanced Vision for Emergencies (ADAM & EVE)**

A firefighter helmet with integrated HUD, thermal imaging, object detection (83%
accuracy), and wireless data streaming—elevating hazard awareness and navigation
in dangerous conditions.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/firefigher_helmet_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/firefigher_helmet_prototype.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 3: JOHN CHAI.R—Mobile Foldable Stair-Climbing Wheelchair**

This foldable, stair-climbing wheelchair empowers mobility for those facing
architectural barriers, blending robust mechanics with smart design for
independent city living.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/chair_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/chair_prototype_demo.gif" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 4: NEST—AI-Enhanced Play-Based Autism Screening**

NEST cleverly combines sensor-embedded modular toys with real-time AI analysis,
transforming diagnostic play into actionable insights for early autism
intervention.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/autism_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/autism_prototype.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 5: EcoRig—Ground-Based Arboreal Camera Servicing System**

EcoRig revolutionizes wildlife monitoring by enabling researchers to install and
reposition treetop cameras from the safety of the ground. Its modular rig and
rope mechanism support biodiversity science without risking climbers’ safety.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/ecorig_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/ecorig_prototype.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 6: Wishy Washy—Closed-Loop Pressure Washing System**

Wishy Washy uses a closed-loop, pressure-washing cart to reclaim and filter
water during HDB cleaning, reducing wastage by 80% and promoting sustainable
maintenance.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/wishy_washy_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/wishy_washy_prototype.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>\

**Team 7: How to Train Your Knees—Smart Knee Rehabilitation System**

A smart sleeve with embedded EMG/IMU sensors and a connected app for
tele-physio. Patients track progress remotely; therapists guide recovery, all
with customization and sustainability in mind.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/smartknee_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/smartknee_prototype_1.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/smartknee_prototype_2.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 8: Shroomie—Autonomous Mushroom Farm**

A scalable urban agriculture system using AI for mushroom maturity detection and
robotic harvesting. Shroomie streamlines growth and picking, promising
sustainable food production for Singapore.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/mushroom_farm_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/mushroom_farm_prototype.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 9: PostureFlow—Wearable Posture Monitoring for Healthcare Workers**

Nurses fight back pain with PostureFlow—a wearable device that uses breathing
sounds and AI to monitor lifting posture and nudge healthier work habits.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/postureflow_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/postureflow_prototype.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 10: DA LEGS—Autonomous Wall-Scrubbing Robot**

A camera-navigated robot with adaptive brush assemblies and climbing legs—to
automate and optimize the cleaning of HDB walls, making maintenance safer and
more efficient.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/scrubbin_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/scrubbin_prototype.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 11: Life-Line—Guided AED Use for Out-of-Hospital Cardiac Arrest**

Empowering bystanders with a deployable guidance stand, wearable headband, and
haptic feedback, Life-Line reduces panic and error to save lives with AEDs
during emergencies.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/lifeline_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/lifeline_prototype.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 12: Odyssaz—Air Cooler**

A compact cooling system sporting a 1L water tank, adjustable wind speed, and
humidifier. Odyssaz keeps comfort affordable, with up to 2.7°C temperature drop
for small spaces.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/odysaaz_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/odysaaz_prototype.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>


**Team 13: Casino Night—CareDose Medication Dispensing Ecosystem**

CareDose turns daily medication into a fun routine, with a pill-vending unit,
compact canisters, and smart dispenser—gamifying health management for
effortless adherence.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/caredose_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/caredose_prototype.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 14: ECZ-Ware—Smart Glove for Eczema Management**

A glove with flex and motion sensors tracks and alerts users to scratching
behaviors, using live data and AI for healthier eczema recovery.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/eczware_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

**Team 15: NONDEVIATE—Accessible Bus Navigation for the Visually Impaired**

This handheld device guides visually-impaired riders to the correct bus with
tactile buttons and audio cues—boosting independence and public transport
access.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/nondeviate_poster.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4">
            {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/jdf_sutd/nondeviate_prototype.png" title="gameplay_1" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

---

## 🏆 Award-Winning Projects

Of all the creative solutions, three teams emerged as stars:

**Best Demonstration:**  EcoRig—Ground-Based Arboreal Camera Servicing System
EcoRig captivated the room with a hands-on demo of its safe, modular rig for
ground-level camera installation and servicing, tested live with NParks. Smart,
practical, and impactful for conservation work!

**Best Prototype:**  Augmented Display and Mapping & Enhanced Vision for
Emergencies (ADAM & EVE)
The ADAM & EVE team wowed judges with their helmet-integrated HUD for
firefighters, seamlessly blending hardware and AI. Real-time thermal imaging and
hazard detection set a new standard for emergency response tech.

**Best Innovation:**  NEST—AI-Enhanced Play-Based Autism Screening
NEST’s playful, sensor-rich toy kit and instant analytics reimagined autism
screening as fun, objective, and data-driven—an innovation with potential to
transform childhood diagnosis and therapy.

---

## 🌍 Why These Projects Matter

These young engineers aren’t just sketching the future—they’re prototyping it
today. The support from the James Dyson Foundation fuels technical brilliance
and daring design, helping tomorrow’s leaders build solutions for public good.

---

## 💡 Final Reflections

Participating as a judge offered a unique vantage point into the next generation
of civic innovation. Surrounded by inventive prototypes and inspiring ideas on
display, it was clear how these teams—whether building new robotics, advancing
healthcare, or transforming the way we navigate our cities—demonstrated the
power of design and AI to deliver creative solutions to real-world challenges.

Thank you to SUTD, the organizing faculty, each passionate team, and the James
Dyson Foundation for the opportunity to witness so much future-focused audacity.
If this showcase is any sign, civic intelligence is in very good hands.

---
