---
layout: post
title: Gears in Motion - Unlocking Mechanical Marvels
date: 2025-01-01 21:11:00
description: Discover the gear-y secrets behind the motion
tags: mechatronics
categories: robotics
---

Gears, the unsung heroes of machinery! These toothed wonders are like the teenage sidekicks of the engineering world – often overlooked, but secretly doing all the heavy lifting.
Let's dive into the gear-y details, shall we?

## What are gears?

Gears are toothed mechanism used to transmit rotational motion and power between driving mechanism (e.g. motor) and the driven part (e.g. wheels). They are crucial for:

- Changing rotational speed
- Adjusting torque
- Changing direction of motion
- Synchronizing rotational movement

## Types of gears

Some commonly used gears are described below.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
  <div class="col-sm-4 text-center">
      {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/gears/spur_gear.png" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
      <div class="caption text-center"> Spur gear </div>
    </div>
  <div class="col-sm-4 text-center">
      {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/gears/helical_gear.png" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
      <div class="caption text-center"> Helical gear </div>
    </div>
  <div class="col-sm-4 text-center">
      {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/gears/rack_gear.png" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
      <div class="caption text-center"> Rack gear </div>
    </div>
  <div class="col-sm-4 text-center">
      {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/gears/worm_gear.png" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
      <div class="caption text-center"> Worm gear </div>
    </div>
  <div class="col-sm-4 text-center">
      {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/gears/bevel_gear.png" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
      <div class="caption text-center"> Bevel gear </div>
    </div>
  <div class="col-sm-4 text-center">
      {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/gears/internal_gear.png" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
      <div class="caption text-center"> Internal gear </div>
    </div>
</div>

## Spur Gears

The spur gears are the most commonly used gears. Let's understand them in detail. There are three things to decide for each gear.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
  <div class="col-sm-7 text-center">
      {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/gears/spur_gear_parameters.png" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
      <div class="caption text-center"> Spur gear parameters. </div>
    </div>
</div>

- `Reference diameter or Pitch circle diameter`: It is chosen based on geometry, torque and speed requirements. It decides how large the gear will be.
- `Pressure angle`: It is usually 14.5 deg or 20 deg (most common).
- `Module`: It determines the gear strength and load bearing capacity. Incresing module increases tooth thickness and strength, whereas reducing module increases the number of teeth giving smoother transmission. It is measured as ($$ \frac{\text{Pitch circle diameter (reference diameter)}}{\text{Number of teeth}} $$).

## Gear Train

And let's not overlook the gear train – a veritable circus of spinning cogs, where proper module and pressure angle matchmaking is key to avoiding the dreaded "backlash".

<div class="row justify-content-md-center">
  <div class="col-sm-5 text-center">
      {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/gears/gear_ratio.png" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
      <div class="caption text-center"> The spacing between the gears is the average of their reference diameters. </div>
    </div>
  <div class="col-sm-5 text-center">
      {% include figure.liquid path="assets/blogs/gears/gear_train.gif" width="100%" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
      <div class="caption text-center"> Gear train. </div>
    </div>
</div>

To make gears work,

- All gears in contact must have the same module and pressure angle.
- The spacing between two gears must be the average of their reference diameters.

`Gear ratios`, the secret language of these mechanical marvels, allow us to manipulate speed and torque like puppet masters. The magic formula?

\begin{equation}
\text{Gear ratio} = \frac{d*2}{d_1} = \frac{N*{\text{teeth} 2}}{N\_{\text{teeth} 1}} = \frac{\omega_1}{\omega_2} = \frac{\tau_1}{\tau_2}
\end{equation}

where:

- $$ d = $$ Reference diameter
- $$ N\_{\text{teeth}} = $$ Number of teeth
- $$ \omega = $$ Angular speed
- $$ \tau = $$ Torque

## Backlash

Backlash is the clearance or play between the mating teeth of gears. It can cause issues like vibration, noise, and inaccurate positioning. To minimize backlash:

- Use gears with precise, tight tolerances on the teeth.
- Adjust the center distance between gears to eliminate excess clearance.
- Employ pre-loaded gear arrangements, such as using spring-loaded idler gears.
- Use helical gears instead of spur gears, as the angled teeth help reduce backlash.
- Increase the number of teeth on the gears to distribute the load.
- Maintain proper lubrication to reduce wear and tear.

So there you have it, folks – the secret lives of gears, where the tiniest of teeth can make a world of difference. Next time you hear the whir of machinery, take a moment to appreciate these unsung heroes, quietly doing their gear-y duty.

## References

[1] [Types of Gear](https://khkgears.net/new/gear_knowledge/introduction_to_gears/types_of_gears.html). Available at: https://khkgears.net/new/gear_knowledge/introduction_to_gears/types_of_gears.html (Accessed: 24 January 2025).

[2] [Spur Gear Calculator and Generator](https://www.engineersedge.com/calculators/spur_gear_calculator_and_generator_15506.htm). Available at: https://www.engineersedge.com/calculators/spur_gear_calculator_and_generator_15506.htm (Accessed: 24 January 2025).

[3] [Gear train](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gear_train) Available at: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gear_train (Accessed: 24 January 2025).
